---
title: Thanks
date: 2022-06-21 11:08:44
permalink: /pages/c3c60f/
---
:::tip Tips
Special thanks to the author and all participating developers of the most popular MySQL open source framework [Mybatis-Plus](https://mp.baomidou.com/).
Thanks to the open source framework [RestHighLevelClient] officially created by ElasticSearch (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/client/java-rest/index.html)
The author of and all its participating developers.
Thanks to Mr.Xu who assisted me in migrating the huge number of [Easy-Es English documents](https://www.yuque.com/laohan-14b9d/tald79/qf7ns2) to this site, sincerely grateful!
:::

Thanks to MP and ES official open source for such a powerful and easy-to-use framework, which brings the liberation of countless developers at home and abroad, greatly improves the efficiency of development and moving bricks, thus saving a lot of valuable time for many developers. It also provides me with For creative inspiration, it can be said that there would be no Easy-Es without Mybatis-Plus. Of course, there may be in the future, but at least it will not meet you so soon, or it may be developed by other authors. The relationship between Mybatis-Plus and Easy-Es, Just like the relationship between F22 and J-20, in the process of framework development, whether it is for compatibility with grammar or some breakthroughs in unknown points, MP has given just the right guidance, which made me take a lot less detours, and let others walk for several years. As a starting point, stand on the shoulders of giants, thus creating a very easy-to-use ES-ORM framework.

In order to maintain the syntax that is 99% similar to MP, the EE framework has borrowed a lot from the MP source code during the development process. If you don't look at the bottom layer and only look at the interface definition, you will mistakenly think that it is a copy and paste MP interface, but the underlying logic is different after all. , MP finally converts the syntax into String SQL, and EE finally converts the syntax into JSON-type ES syntax. There are still big differences in essence. There are still many innovations and difficulties that need to be broken through. Due to the natural complexity of ES Due to the nature and high threshold, the difficulty of developing EE is far greater than that of MP. There were several difficulties during the period, which made me think of giving up. Fortunately, through various efforts, thinking, and perseverance, I completed the development and testing of the entire framework. , document writing, etc.

Now, I dedicate the source code of this framework to all the developers in the world. After all, it is possible to create a real "Easyest" by condensing the ideas of excellent developers at home and abroad, otherwise it can only be Easy-ES.

If this framework can help you improve development efficiency and save development time during the development process, you might as well spend a few seconds (it takes a lot of time before and after building this framework) to give this framework a Star on Git, so that more people can see and use it When it comes to it, don't be a borrower, start with me!

Finally, thank you to everyone who supports EE, thank you for your support to EE, thank you! I also thank all the partners in the community who have contributed suggestions and codes to EE, as well as yourself for your selfless dedication to EE.

by author