---
title: Update plan
date: 2023-03-18 10:00:00
permalink: /pages/e4404e/
---
## Version Update Plan

-basically available V0.x: common functions are basically available and can be used as a good ES tool library.
-production availability V1.x: rich in functions, reliable and stable, and can be put into production in production environment.
-Easy to use V2.x (current stage): The function is easy to use, and the framework automatically and intelligently infers, reducing the possibility of manual intervention and mistakes.
-strive for perfection V3.x: pursuing perfection, demanding exquisiteness, and striving for perfection in constant iteration and development.
-World-famous V4.x: I hope to go abroad and let developers around the world use Easy-Es.



## Demand pool

> the demand in the demand pool is to be scheduled, depending on the iterative planning, and it will be launched on time.

1. The configuration function of XPACK local secret-key permission check module was put forward by the user @ 京京京京京京京京. This requirement is only available if it supports 8.0+es, so it is expected that this requirement will not be supported for a long time.
1. Percolate reverse retrieval support, proposed by Earl, a code cloud user.
1. Plug-ins are provided to support automatic index generation and index switching according to user-defined rules such as day/week/month/year.
1. Provide multi-data source support
1. Provide support for various non-springboot frameworks.
1. Support Nested highlighting
1. Provide a tool class that can easily parse aggregation results.
1. Support XML custom dynamic DSL.

Continuously updated ...
