---
title: Thanks
date: 2023-03-18 10:00:00
permalink: /pages/f0d846/
---
:::tip
Special thanks go to the author of MyBatis-Plus (https://mp.baomidou.com/), the most popular MySQL open source framework in China, and all the participating developers.
Acknowledge ElasticSearch's official open source framework [ElasticsearchClient] (https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic search/client/Java-rest/index.html).
The author of and all its participating developers.
Thank you, Mr. "Qing Feng Xu Piao", who helped me to transfer a large number of [Easy-Es English documents] (https://www.yuque.com/laohan-14b9d/tald79/Qf7NS2) to this site. Thank you very much!
:::

Thanks to the powerful and easy-to-use framework of MP and ES official open source, it has brought about the liberation of countless developers at home and abroad, greatly improved the efficiency of developing and moving bricks, thus saving a lot of precious time for many developers, and also provided me with creative inspiration. It can be said that there would be no Easy-Es without Mybatis-Plus. Of course, there may be one in the future, but at least I won't meet you so soon. Or maybe other authors developed the relationship between. Mybatis-Plus and Easy-Es, just like the relationship between F22 and J-20. In the process of framework development, MP gave just the right guidance, which made me avoid many detours and stood on the shoulders of giants, thus creating a very easy-to-use ES-ORM framework.

In order to keep the syntax similar to MP99%, the EE framework borrowed a lot from MP source code in the development process. If you don't look at the bottom layer and only look at the interface definition, you will mistakenly think that it is copying and pasting the MP interface, but the underlying logic is different after all. MP eventually converts the grammar into String SQL, while EE eventually converts the grammar into JSON-type ES grammar, which is quite different in essence. There are still many innovations and difficulties to be broken through. Due to the natural complexity and high threshold of ES, it is much more difficult to develop EE than MP. During this period, there were several difficulties that once made me give up. Fortunately, through various efforts, thinking and perseverance, I finally completed the development, testing and document writing of the whole framework.

Now, I dedicate the source code of this framework to all developers in the world. After all, it embodies the ideas of outstanding developers at home and abroad, so it is possible to create a real "Easyest", otherwise it can only be Easy-ES.

If this framework can help you improve the development efficiency and save the development time during the development process, you might as well spend a few seconds (it takes a lot of time before and after building this framework) to give this framework a Star in Git, so that more people can see and use it. Don't be a freelancer, start with me!

Finally, thank you to everyone who supports EE, thank you for your support to EE, thank you! I also thank all the partners in the community who have contributed suggestions and codes to EE, as well as their selfless dedication to EE.

By LaoHan

