---
title: whats new in v2.1.0
date: 2025-02-03 10:00:00
permalink: /pages/2r3423/
---
# v2.1.0

# # Preface
First of all, thank you very much for your support to EE all the time. In the past year, due to the recession of the industry, the work has become more and more busy, and the new open source projects doc-apis and fitness.
As a result, the whole 24-year EE was only launched as a milestone version. I'm sorry to say to you here. Because I am not a full-time open source, I have to move bricks for five buckets of rice in my life, and I still hope Haihan.
I haven't given up open source, and I won't in the future. I won't forget my initial intention and insist on rewarding every user with open source!

Fortunately, with the development of the project, more and more outstanding developers have emerged in the community. I sincerely thank every student who has contributed PR to the community, especially the outstanding developers represented by Ajie, who have contributed a lot to the community. Excellent features,
I hope that in the future, more outstanding students who can generate electricity for the open source community for a long time will emerge to help the open source community prosper!

# # Version content
- Adapt solon.
- Adapt to Old spring
- Upgrade the bottom RestHighLevelClient version 7.14.0->7.17.8 is compatible with es7.x and 8.x.
- Add copy_to index type.
- Interceptor plug-ins support regular expression wildcard.
- Optimize the condition judgment logic, and check the parameters only when the condition is true.
- MapperScan supports multi-packet scanning.
- Add a method to automatically generate reverse engineering of entity classes according to indexes.
- When the fix boost is Null, there is an NPE problem in QueryBuilders unpacking.
- Fixed the problem that searcAfter query reported an error after setting sorting in mixed query.
- Document synchronization update

# # Attention
The API level of this upgrade does not need to be compatible. It is completely backwards compatibility version 2.0.0, but the underlying RestHighLevelClient version, 7.14.0->7.17.8, is updated, so the upgrade is under evaluation.
At present, it is suggested that it is best to measure it to avoid unpredictable problems after upgrading. As far as I know and measure it at present, this version of ES is completely downward and upward compatible.

# # Afterword
We have done a rigorous test before the new version goes online. Welcome to upgrade and try it out. If you find any defects unfortunately, please let us know. We will confirm and fix them as soon as possible, and we will continue to iterate in the future. Various better features may be late, but we will never be absent ~
