---
title: Page
date: 2022-06-21 11:12:40
permalink: /pages/facecc/
---
## Shallow pagination
````java
    // physical paging
    PageInfo<T> pageQuery(LambdaEsQueryWrapper<T> wrapper, Integer pageNum, Integer pageSize);
````

:::tip Tips
You can use paging query without integrating any plug-ins. This query belongs to physical paging, based on size+from shallow paging mode, if you need
In some high-level syntax usage scenarios, the currently known return of aggregate fields is not supported by our pager. You need to encapsulate the paging by yourself. Other scenarios can basically be perfectly supported, and it is extremely simple to use.
Note that PageInfo is provided by this framework. If you already have the most popular open source paging plugin PageHelper in your project, please be careful not to introduce errors when importing the package. EE uses the same return fields as PageHelper, so you don't need to worry about the field names The extra workload caused by non-uniformity.
:::

> Example of use:

````java
    @Test
    public void testPageQuery() {
        LambdaEsQueryWrapper<Document> wrapper = new LambdaEsQueryWrapper<>();
        wrapper.match(Document::getTitle, "Old man");
        PageInfo<Document> documentPageInfo = documentMapper.pageQuery(wrapper,1,10);
        System.out.println(documentPageInfo);
    }
````

## rolling query

````java
    // scroll query
    SearchResponse scroll(SearchScrollRequest searchScrollRequest, RequestOptions requestOptions) throws IOException;
````
:::tip Tips
If you need to perform a large amount of data query and paging requirements, you can use scrolling query to achieve it. Regarding scrolling query, we have actually provided getSearchSourceBuilder API to quickly construct SearchSourceBuilder. With the scrolling query API provided above, it can help you quickly Implement scrolling queries.
Of course, our support for scrolling queries will not stop here, and will continue to be optimized in the later stage. When the amount of paging query data exceeds a certain threshold, scrolling query paging will be automatically enabled, and users can choose which paging mode to use through configuration, so stay tuned.
:::